In this demo, we are going to add offline capabilities to our application.
So, whenever we are not connected to the internet,
we are still going to be able to work with the data. Whenever we're offline
and then we make a change, the AppSync client will try the operation
whenever an internet connection becomes available.
While this is great,
we want our users to be able to see the data on the UI
as soon as they make the changes.
This is called an optimistic response.
We won't wait for the server to be called,
but we are going to add the record to our local cache manually.
And, whenever the internet connection becomes available,
the AppSync client will update the record automatically. In our
createTask function, we're going to update the mutate query to store the
data locally when there is no internet connection.
First,
we need to add the optimisticResponse function. This function needs
to output the createGlobomanticsTasks object.
Here, we need to specify the typename for our task.
The typename is the type of the object that we are
mutating. In our case for creating a task, our object is
called CreateGlobomanticsTasksInput.
To make sure that you type the correct name for your
object, you need to navigate to your schema.
In our case, in the mutations,
we can see that the type is CreateGlobomanticsTasksInput. And
then for the update, UpdateGlobomanticsTasksInput, and for
delete, it's DeleteGlobomanticsTasksInput.
In this case, we only need the CreateGlobomanticsTaskInput type.
Let's navigate back to our index.ts file. And beside the typename, we also
have to specify an id for our item so it can be used locally.
This id might be replaced later by the AppSync client once it syncs the data.
But this process will be done automatically, so there's nothing for us
to worry. For the id, we use a unique identifier function that we can
import from the unique identifier library.
Then, after we have specified the id, we specify the
rest of the properties, a title, a date, and a description.
Normally,
we do not pass in a date when we create our item since the date is
automatically generated on the back end, but if we're working with it
locally, we need to set in as current date.
Then, whenever an internet connection becomes available,
this property will be updated.
Now, that we set up the optimistic response, which will construct our
object that we want to insert into our cache, now we need to implement
the actual logic of inserting it into the cache.
We can do that in the update function.
This function will be called whenever the mutation is executed.
If there is no internet connection,
then this function will be called so we can enter the data in our local cache.
Whenever the internet connection becomes available,
this function will be called once more, so we have the
latest data to enter into our cache.
If there is internet connection,
then this function will be called only once. As a parameter,
it has a cache service,
which is a service that we are going to use to store the data
locally, and then it has the input from the update,
which is the createGlobomanticsTasks data.
As a first step, we need to read all the data from the cache.
We can do that using the readQuery function and then specifying the
GetAllQuery, which will return all our items.
Next, we override the items on the
listGlobomanticsTasks property on the data object.
Here, we're combining into an array the newly‑created item and then the
old data, but we are leaving out the item that has the same id as our
newly‑created item or newly‑updated item.
And finally, we write the data into the cache using the
cache.writeQuery function. As parameters, we need to
specify the query and then the data.
Now, let's save our changes and try this in action.
We can simulate a no internet connection scenario by going to the Network
tab on our browser and setting the Throttling to Offline.
Now, let's add a new task. As soon as we hit Create, our update function
should be called. Now, as soon as we added the task,
we can see that the update function was called and the
createTask function is logged in the console where we can
see the details of our task.
Since, for fetch policy, we're using network and cache, first,
it's loading all the data from the cache, and our offline item was
added to the cache, so now it can be displayed in the UI. Whenever an
internet connection becomes available,
the update function will be called once more.
Let's clear the cache and navigate to our Network tab.
Now, let's change the Throttling from Offline to Online.
And as soon as we do,
we are going to see a network call being made to
our AppSync back end. And indeed, we have a network call.
If we look at the request details,
we can see that the createGlobomanticsTasks mutation was sent.
And if we navigate back to our console,
we can see that the update function was called once more when internet
connection became available and new data was sent to the client. Using the
local cache and the optimistic response, we can make our user experience
seamless by allowing them to continue working,
even if they lose internet connection and sync all their
changes later. Just like we did with the createTasks mutation
where we added the item to the cache,
we need to do the same with update and the delete mutations.
The logic for the update mutation is going to be exactly the same
as the create mutation. And for the deleteTasks mutation, we just
need to remove the item from the cache.
I'll leave this up to you so you can test your skills, but you can find the final implementation in the exercise files.